hey guys welcome to lingo marina today
we're gonna learn
some smart phrases in english that you
can use in your conversation
in order to make your speech more
natural and to sound more like a native
speaker
there are so many phrases that we use
over and over again
in our english language speech and i do
the same mistakes sometimes i talk to
people
and i say the same phrase over and over
and over again
this makes my speech boring and this is
why i decided to make this video where
we would go through different situations
and we're going to discuss smart phrases
that native speakers use and that you
can use
to improve your spoken english so if
you're interested continue watching this
video up to the very end and do not
forget to
hit the like button if you like this
video and don't forget to subscribe
to my channel the first situation that
we're gonna discuss is making plans
with someone yes you can say oh let's
see each other tonight or let's do this
tonight
do you know what americans say they say
let's grab a coffee sometime
and the thing is this coffee phrase
doesn't necessarily mean that you're
going to go to a coffee shop when an
american invites me to grab a coffee we
could also go to a sandwich place we
could go and walk in a park this is just
a phrase to invite someone to a casual
meeting
you want to grab a coffee or something
another way you can say that
let's catch up for a coffee tonight or
in a week or
tomorrow whatever maybe we could get a
cup of coffee
and catch up of course every person
would understand that the purpose of
this meeting is not drinking coffee
together the purpose of this meeting is
for you to connect to chat etc
there is a phrase that would highlight
this chatting over drinking coffee
the phrase that you can use sounds like
let's catch up
over a coffee sometime so basically with
this preposition over you're putting
coffee here but you putting
catching up here so it's kind of above
maybe over a cup of coffee
and it's more meaningful for you to talk
to this person
and not just grab a coffee with them if
you don't want to make any particular
plans
if you don't want to invite someone to a
coffee shop or to a restaurant
you can just say let's hang out tonight
hangout means
spend time together and it doesn't
matter what you're going to do you can
go to a park you can go to a party you
can go to a movie theater oh your
boyfriend's out of town let's hang out
tonight
the whole purpose of this getting
together is to
connect with the person that you want to
spend time with or if you don't want to
make any particular plans
but you want to inform the person that
you really like him or her and you want
to spend more time together
you can say do you want to hang out
sometime you want to hang out sometime
go out and then uh you can continue this
phrase by suggesting
where you would go we could go to a
movie theater see this this and that or
there is a new coffee shop that opened
next to my place
do you want to meet there on saturday at
5 00 pm
if that's okay with you is a phrase that
you can use in order to confirm
plans if that's okay with you in my
videos i talk a lot about cultural
differences between americans and other
cultures especially i'm coming from a
russian-speaking country where
people are very direct so if you're
inviting somebody somewhere
they will say no i'm busy and this
doesn't mean they're impolite it just
means they don't want to
waste their energy and time on different
phrases to make it more vague
to make it more polite etc of course
people are different but this is what i
noticed this major difference between
the two cultures so if you want to sound
more american and more european
you need to learn how to be less direct
and more polite
so instead of just saying no i don't
want to go with you
you can say it's very kind of you but
i have other plans it's very very kind
of you but
i can't if you want to be super formal
if you're chatting to a teacher whatever
you can say i really appreciate your
offer but unfortunately
and then you explain why you can't
accept it i really appreciate the offer
but when you want to say that you really
really like the offer
but you just can't come you can say it
is
very tempting and tempting means you
really want to try it or you really want
to do it
but i have to study for my exam but
i'm on quarantine or whatever sounds
tempting
very tempting if you need more time to
make a decision
if the offer is really really grand like
do you want to go to europe for a couple
of days when you're like oh my god i
can't answer this right now
you can say let me sleep on this
which means that you're gonna give the
answer tomorrow or the day after
tomorrow you need
more time to make a decision let me
sleep on this
i don't know let me sleep on it oh come
on
the next race is not like super polite
because
when people say i want to pass on it
it's kind of they're refusing it
you can't use it but just be careful
with the context and be careful with
your intonation
so somebody invites you to a party and
you can say i'm sorry
i think i'm gonna pass on it because i
have some other plans but just make sure
you don't say like
i'm gonna pass on it this is a boring
party because
this is gonna be offensive so just make
sure you watch your body language and
you watch your intonation
i just want to pass another idiom that
you can use sounds like to take a rain
check on something
and it means that you are declining the
offer
now but you might take it up later so
for example
you get an interview request or you get
a vacation offer or you get like a huge
deal
and you like it but you're not ready to
take it right now
you can say can i take a rain check on
it
this would mean that you're saying no
but you're open to discussing it in the
future
can i take a rain check there are also
cases when you don't want to explain
yourself
so you can just say i'm sorry i don't
think i can make it
that's it no explanation needed but uh
unfortunately i don't think i can make
it
now imagine you were the one inviting
somebody
to a party or offering someone to catch
up for a coffee
and you got this refusal how do you
respond to it you don't say
you're a bad person i don't want to hang
out with you anymore you don't do that
there are several smart phrases again
that you can use in this situation as
well
the phrase that you can use never mind
it's fine the purpose of all of it is to
make that person
feel better because they refuse they
kind of feel awkward
and it's very important that you say
never mind it's okay
i will study over this weekend as well
so we'll just study together you know
virtually
[Music]
never mind it's fine or if your offer
was inappropriate like maybe you offered
to go
on a date and then you realize this
person is married or whatever
you can say never mind forget what i
just said
literally just forget as if it never
happened heck you know what
never mind forget it but if you are in
an informal situation
and you're really really sorry that the
person can make
it like you invited your best friend to
your birthday party and
your best friend says p.s kobe whatever
you can say
oh no it's a bummer but you know get
well soon
thank you so much for getting back to me
so the phrase is when you're sorry when
you're upset
that's a bummer oh man that's a bummer
now leaving the conversation
is also really important when you're
talking on a phone or
if you're in the middle of a group chat
you can just say
oh i gotta go bye you know you need to
kind of introduce
your intention to leave and again there
are several phrases that you can use for
this situation
guys i'm sorry it's time for me to head
out
i have a couple more meetings today it
was great seeing you all
today see you tomorrow so the phrase is
it is time for me
to head out if it's time for you to head
home or another one
i'd better be going um i better be going
then if you're leaving in the middle of
a conversation and you want people to
inform you
about what happened later you can say
please guys keep me posted about the
progress of this and that problem
and the thing is keep me posted can be
used in this situation when you're
genuinely
interested and also when we first came
to silicon valley when we were pitching
language rep to some investors
of course when you are you know
approaching a lot of people some people
just
don't want to invest in your company so
some of those investors told us
guys you're doing a great thing keep us
posted and because i didn't know the
meaning of that phrase
i thought they were really actually
interested in the company they wanted to
hear everything that's going to happen
in the future but then later
my american friend explained that this
is just a polite phrase when you feel
that the meeting isn't going anywhere
when you feel that a person isn't really
interested when they say keep me posted
that means this conversation is over of
course you can send some updates but i'm
not really interested
but again you need to feel the situation
sometimes people generally say you know
keep me posted we need to solve this
problem together
but sometimes this is a way to end the
conversation in a polite way
and show someone that they're interested
but they're actually not so
read in between the lines this is you
know all about psychology and the
language
keep me posted keep me posted and the
last but not the least
it was nice seeing you take care that's
a great substitution to just saying
goodbye or
whatever it was nice seeing you take
care it was nice seeing you
thank you guys for watching this video
up to the very end below you can find
some links to my courses and workbooks
that we've created together with my
company language app
the company that i've just told you
about you know you're subscribed to this
channel and you are learning english
hit the red subscribe button and i will
see you very soon in my next videos i
produce them
weekly it was nice seeing you take care